docs/getting_started/install.md, before:

# Install and Setup

Auto-REST is built in Python and can be installed directly from the Python Package Index (PyPI).
The `pipx` package manager is recommended for standalone installations, which isolates the package in its own environment.
Alternatively, the standard `pip` utility can be used to install Auto-REST as a dependency within an existing project.

=== "pipx (standalone)"

    ```bash
    pipx install auto-rest
    ```

=== "pip (dependency)"

    ```bash
    pip install auto-rest
    ```

## Adding Custom Drivers

Auto-REST includes drivers for most common database systems by default.
However, additional drivers can be installed to support other database types or as alternatives to the prepackaged drivers.
Auto-REST supports any driver compatible with the SQLAlchemy Python framework, including synchronous and asynchronous drivers.

To add a new driver, install the driver package into the same environment where Auto-REST is installed.

=== "pipx (standalone)"

    ```bash
    pipx inject auto-rest [PACKAGE NAME]   
    ```

=== "pip (dependency)"

    ```bash
    pip install [PACKAGE NAME]
    ```

Commit message:

Reorganize methods in response to architecture review (#41)
* Reorganize methods in response to architecture review

* Updates tests for cli module

* Updates tests for handlers module

* Updates tests for models module

* Drops tests/app dir

* Adds tests for welcome and version router

* Extends tests for db engine factory

* Fixes bug where app title and version are not set

* Adds tests for the create_meta_handler function

* Adds tests for the create_meta_router function

* Minor formatting edits

* Adds tests for create_model_router function

* Minor syntax fix in test suite

* Drops empty docs from queries module

docs/getting_started/install.md, after:

# Install and Setup

Auto-REST is available for installation from the Python Package Index (PyPI).
The `pipx` package manager is recommended for standalone installations, however the standard `pip` utility can also be
used.

=== "pipx (standalone)"

    ```bash
    pipx install auto-rest
    ```

=== "pip (dependency)"

    ```bash
    pip install auto-rest
    ```

## Adding Custom Drivers

Auto-REST includes pre-packaged drivers for most common databases.
The table below lists the supported database systems along with their default drivers.

| Database System      | Default Driver       |
|----------------------|----------------------|
| SQLite               | `sqlite+aiosqlite`   |
| PostgreSQL           | `postgresql+asyncpg` |
| MySQL                | `mysql+asyncmy`      |
| Oracle               | `oracle+oracledb`    |
| Microsoft SQL Server | `mssql+aiomysql`     |

User's can extend the list 
In addition to the default drivers, Auto-REST supports any driver compatible with the SQLAlchemy Python framework.
To add a new driver, install it in the same environment as the Auto-REST utility.

=== "pipx (standalone)"

    ```bash
    pipx inject auto-rest [PACKAGE_NAME]   
    ```

=== "pip (dependency)"

    ```bash
    pip install [PACKAGE_NAME]
    ```
